Pandemic-inspired innovations to stay with us in 2021
The New Year 2021 kick started on some positive notes. The discovery of vaccines against the global pandemic shows a glimmer of light at the end of the tunnel.  2020 was an incredibly dynamic year of changes and adaptations. Covid 19 has accelerated many technology changes that were slated for the forthcoming years. These were in fact direct responses to stay resilient during the challenging times. This year we can expect the repercussions of these remarkable transformative initiatives continue in our lives as well. Here we can see a five technology innovations that will continue to reign our lives in 2021.
Innovative masks
Donning a facemask is nothing unusual now. Masks have now joined the bandwagon of innovative wearables. The strong demand for this protective covering has accelerated innovations in this line.  If you want to display a message pixelated on your mask, you can do that with LED masks. There are masks and face covers with wireless, Bluetooth headphones and in-built microphones. More innovative ones are underway.
High resolution webcams and AI head sets
On workfront, we are all adapted to the new normal work from home. This year it is expected to shift to more new concepts like decentralized workforce, flexible working, work from near home and work from anywhere models. We are now comfortable doing things virtually. Similar to masks and sanitizers for our healthy being, high resolution webcams and headsets have become essentials to survive. The spike in video content creators have also spiked the needs for advanced webcams, mics and headphones. Many mobile phone manufacturers have already announced their new line of products which offers new user experience in 2021. 
Evolving computers
Even though the concept of ARM-based computers is nothing new, Apple made a major stride toward the end of 2020 with Apple Macbook Pro M1. The company defines M1 as a giant leap with a small chip. Technology enthusiast considers this as a fork in the road. Microsoft has also released its first ARM-powered PC Surface Pro X, in the same year. The shift from chips based on Intel’s x86 architecture to ARM technology is expected to set the computers on a new course. The trend of developing custom chips is expected to continue as more tech giants like Amazon are expected to join the suit.
Portable workstations
When offices and schools moved in to our homes, portable workstations became more than a choice. You get a variety of choices in these right from adjustable chairs and tables to bed tables that helps you work or learn from the comfort of your bed. The ease of movability and multiple levels of height adjustments make them a preferred choice as you can shift it to anywhere in your home. 
Portable UV sanitization boxes
No wonder if you find a UV sanitization box in your home later this year. It will become a necessity soon as the world is expected to adapt to more severe viruses and pandemic in the coming future. You would need them to clean from baby pacifiers to mobile phones. More compact handheld UV disinfectant devices are underway. After all staying sanitized is staying stafe!
Home entertainment obsessions
The increasing popularity of over the top (OTT) platforms and other streaming methods made our heads turn to smart TVs with latest features. Customized screens, full ultra-high resolution streaming devices, immersive surrounding sound equipment and innovative lighting solutions that reflect individual style statements will line up in 2021.
All of us are craving to go back to a life before the pandemic. Innovations like the above mentioned are the silver lining of this dark times. Technologies that will impact our lives the most in this year will be those that empower us to stay flexible and adaptable to new changes. 
